README.md, before:

# XTB_trading_bot

XTB_trading_bot is exactly what its name implies. A bot written in Python, works with XTB broker using the API.py file (a wrapper for XTB API, not written by me).

## Documentation

At this moment, the bot doesn't trade by itself, it only takes the tickers available from the XTB broker, applies a RSI + BB strategy and sends all tickers for Buy and Sell through a channel in Telegram.
The original link for the wrapper is here https://github.com/caiomborges/Python-XTB-API but I decided to included it in my files for a quicker setup.
I'm not gonna lie, my journey in Python is in its infancy steps, so at the moment ChatGPT is a great help to unblock me and improve my code where needed.

## Setup

I'm running and testing this script in a Raspberry PI 4, on latest version of RaspberryOS.
I have Python 3.10 installed on it.
After installing all the libraries needed, you will need to setup a telegram bot channel in order for you to receive the notifications send by the bot.
 - In the API.py wrapper you will need to modify the file at line 553 for which kind of XTB account you are using, demo or real.
 - In config.ini file, enter your XTB username and password (username refers to your XTB account ID, not the username you use for login into account/app)
 - For setting up a telegram bot, follow this link: https://pypi.org/project/telegram-send/
 - In Instalation section you have a guide on hot to install the library and also how to setup the bot in telegram to provide the library all that is needed. Warning, I sugest using v 0.24
 - If you use a gspread like I do and want to keep it updated, you can use this guide here: https://codoid.com/automation-testing/gspread-python-tutorial/
   The key needs to be put in a file called pybotnasq_tok.json
 - Code has hardcoded time check at this moment so this means it will check the market automatically each day at 16:30 GMT+2. If you live in another TMZ, modify this accordingly.
 - Code has a list of hardcoded dates in which market is closed. The list is available for the whole year of 2024 after which it will have to be renewed.

## Next Steps

- make script check dinamically if market is closed in that day
- make script start and end dinamically, based on system set tmz
- make script asks at first run if you have available a spredsheed you want to update
- make script asks at first run if you have a telegram bot and want to use one for notifications
- use different telegram bot library and create a fully fledged bot that also accepts various commands (dinamically updating portfolio and wishlist, dinamically updating spreadsheet when sold or bought stocks, etc)
- remove portfolio and wishlist as files, include them as config parameters
- make in config an argument of demo/real for the API.py
- more TBA as soon as I think of

## Next Next Steps :grin:

- include new buy/sell strategies and let user choose which one is to be run
- make user choose if he wishes to only have notifications or give bot full authonomy to make trades
- make config arguments for full authonomy trades
- implement bot to be fully authonomous
- more TBA as soon as I think of

### Disclaimer

This bot does not collect any kind of user information.
Nothing returned by the bot constitutes a solicitation, recommendation, endorsement to buy of sell any financial instruments. Nothing returned by this bot constitutes professional and/or financial advice. You alone assume the sole responsability of evaluating the merits and risks associated with the use of any information provided by this bot.
There are risks associated with investing in securities, stocks, bonds, exchange traded funds, mutual funds and it involve risk of loss.

### License

[GNU GPL-3](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/gpl-3.0/)

### Support
If you would like to support this by having a 'nice to have' that i haven't thought of, open an Issue and we'll discuss about it.

You can also support me here if you so desire:
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/nazguul512" target="_blank"><img src="https://cdn.buymeacoffee.com/buttons/default-yellow.png" alt="Buy Me A Coffee" height="41" width="174"></a>

Commit message:

updated README with further info and requirements.txt with dependencies (#6)

README.md, after:

# XTB_trading_bot

XTB_trading_bot is exactly what its name implies. A bot written in Python, works with XTB broker using the API.py file (a wrapper for XTB API, not written by me).

## Documentation

At this moment, the bot doesn't trade by itself, it only takes the tickers available from the XTB broker, applies a RSI + BB strategy and sends all tickers for Buy and Sell through a channel in Telegram.
The original link for the wrapper is here https://github.com/caiomborges/Python-XTB-API but I decided to included it in my files for a quicker setup.
I'm not gonna lie, my journey in Python is in its infancy steps, so at the moment ChatGPT is a great help to unblock me and improve my code where needed.

## Setup

I'm running and testing this script in a Raspberry PI 4, on latest version of RaspberryOS arm64.  
I have Python 3.11 installed on it.  
If you are using it in the latest version of RaspberryOS (even maybe on arm64), the way they suggest you work with external python libraries has changes, as seen here: https://www.raspberrypi.com/documentation/computers/os.html#python-on-raspberry-pi  
Therefore, follow their guide on how to create a venv, install the needed libraries in there, and run the app. If running in another OS or distro, this may not apply to you.  

After installing all the libraries needed, you will need to setup a telegram bot channel in order for you to receive the notifications send by the bot.
 - In the API.py wrapper you will need to modify the file at line 553 for which kind of XTB account you are using, demo or real.
 - In config.ini file, enter your XTB username and password (username refers to your XTB account ID, not the username you use for login into account/app)
 - For setting up a telegram bot, follow this link: https://pypi.org/project/telegram-send/
 - In Instalation section you have a guide on how to install the library and also how to setup the bot in telegram to provide the library all that is needed. Warning, I sugest using v 0.24 of telegram-send and v 13.14 of python-telegram-bot which is a dependency of telegram-send. Updating these 2 libraries to their newest versions will cause problems and will not function properly.
 - If you use a gspread like I do and want to keep it updated, you can use this guide here: https://codoid.com/automation-testing/gspread-python-tutorial/
   The key needs to be put in a file called pybotnasq_tok.json for the time being. In time, I will make this optional. Not sure if the script will work without a gspread at this point.
 - Code has hardcoded time check at this moment so this means it will check the market automatically each day at 16:30 GMT+2. If you live in another TMZ, modify this accordingly.
 - Code has a list of hardcoded dates in which market is closed. The list is available for the whole year of 2024 after which it will have to be renewed.

## Next Steps

- make script check dinamically if market is closed in that day
- make script start and end dinamically, based on system set tmz
- make script asks at first run if you have available a spredsheed you want to update
- make script asks at first run if you have a telegram bot and want to use one for notifications
- use different telegram bot library and create a fully fledged bot that also accepts various commands (dinamically updating portfolio and wishlist, dinamically updating spreadsheet when sold or bought stocks, etc)
- remove portfolio and wishlist as files, include them as config parameters
- make in config an argument of demo/real for the API.py
- more TBA as soon as I think of

## Next Next Steps :grin:

- include new buy/sell strategies and let user choose which one is to be run
- make user choose if he wishes to only have notifications or give bot full authonomy to make trades
- make config arguments for full authonomy trades
- implement bot to be fully authonomous
- more TBA as soon as I think of

### Disclaimer

This bot does not collect any kind of user information.
Nothing returned by the bot constitutes a solicitation, recommendation, endorsement to buy of sell any financial instruments. Nothing returned by this bot constitutes professional and/or financial advice. You alone assume the sole responsability of evaluating the merits and risks associated with the use of any information provided by this bot.
There are risks associated with investing in securities, stocks, bonds, exchange traded funds, mutual funds and it involve risk of loss.

### License

[GNU GPL-3](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/gpl-3.0/)

### Support
If you would like to support this by having a 'nice to have' that i haven't thought of, open an Issue and we'll discuss about it.

You can also support me here if you so desire:
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/nazguul512" target="_blank"><img src="https://cdn.buymeacoffee.com/buttons/default-yellow.png" alt="Buy Me A Coffee" height="41" width="174"></a>
